-----------------------
::::: KARA :::::
Blackflames are known for aiding each other in times of trouble and sticking together tightly in their safe zones. They travel Ave in greater groups of people and take comfort in their number. 
The race of the Blackflames are often seen as the potentially most dangerous species in Ave. They’re able to create and control flames that are so black they sometimes scare wild monsters off by themselves. They also have excellent healing abilities, where their flames can restore even lost limbs over time. 
Blackflames are known for helping each other out when they can, forming long-lasting companionships and strong groups of travellers. Protective and with a strong sense for justice, you may stumble across a group of Blackflames trying to fix problems that aren’t theirs. This race is kind-hearted, yet unforgiving if you hurt one of them. They preferably travel in larger groups, from ten to 30 people on their home continent, Aldea. 
Their current king is called ‘Glaive’ and has successfully kept peaceful relations with most other alliances since his reign. 

Black Flames
They can create strong flames and attack with them as a close-combat action. 
1d6 when attacking a single enemy up to 2m away
You can also decide to go for a field-covering attack, using half your usual damage dice rounded up per hit in a 1m radius from a point you can see within your usual range. 
With every level, add 1d6 to attack rolls and 1m to reach and radius of your attacks. 

Utility Flames
Their flames can also be used outside of combat to spend warmth for themselves or fellow companions, or to burn down structures, though that requires concentration to uphold, or the flame will extinguish without receiving power remotely from you. 

Flaming pockets
Starting on third level, you can hide items with your flames whenever you want. Once hidden, an item is basically not there anymore until you die or want them to come back to you. If the item is emitting aura, enemies can use focus to find out about it. 
You can hide one item per level, starting with three items on your third level  

Regenerative Flames
Starting at level 5, you will heal 1d6 HP per round when in combat, once per rest until the combat ends. With every level, add 1d6 healing per round. Every fifth level, add one usage until you need to rest again. If you use this feature outside of combat, you heal half of your lost hit points.

Detonation
Detonation: Once you reach level 7, you can cause explosions by touch that you are unaffected by. Those explosions catapult things away from you (up to 1m per level you have) and deal 10d6 damage. Add one dice per level. 

Melt
Once you are on your tenth level, you can use your powers to melt things you touch or things that are near you (depending on your roll). Applied on a creature or structure, this deals 5d20 damage, re-rolling everything below 5. With this ability, you can melt your way through every obstacle. Every fifth level, you can add a d20 to the damage.
-----------------------




-----------------------
::::: RAGIN :::::
Ragin are spontaneous, fast-thinking and fun-seeking beings. Whatever might be fun to them might not be so enjoyable for you, however. 
They have similar elemental powers to the Blackflames. Instead of flames, they have lightning abilities that allow them to shoot bolts as long-ranged attacks. They have always had a feud with the Blcakflsmrd because of their similar powers and provoke them on a regular basis. So far, they haven’t been able to beat them due to the Ragin being less organized, and more scattered across all three continents while the Blackflames prefer to stay on their home continent in larger groups. 
Their king is called ‘Raku’ and has started his reign about a year ago. He has defeated the last alliance’s leader and since then prepared for war. 

Lightning Bolt
Ragin can create strong lightning bolts to attack enemies over a long distance, dealing 2d6 points of damage per hit. Every level you can add 1,5d6 damage. 

Mobile Powerstation
Ragin can power up any vehicle, device or battery instantly. 

Thunder Shot
Starting at third level, you can apply 1d6 points of damage to whoever is hurting you in close combat by electrocuting them in return. Add 1d6 every level. You can only do this once per turn as a reaction. 

Regenerative lightning
Starting at level 5, you will heal 1d6 HP per round when in combat, once per rest until the combat ends. With every level, add 1d6 healing per round. Every fifth level, add one usage until you need to rest again. If you use this feature outside of combat, you heal half of your lost hit points.

Storm
On level 7, you can control the weather in a 100m radius to create a storm that doubles the damage you deal, but also the damage you take. This is seen as an absolute rage manifestation that powers you up, but makes you vulnerable at the same time. Add 100m per level you gain. 

Sonic speed
You can change your form into that of a lightning and travel at its speed to wherever you want. If you hit an obstacle you deal 5d20 damage to it, re-rolling everything below a 5, and turn back into your original form. You can stay in this form for up to a minute, but if you transform back after hitting an obstacle or running out of said time, you need to wait a minute to use the ability again. Every fifth level, you can add a d20. 
-----------------------




-----------------------
::::: DREE :::::
This race is seen as the most noble, and sometimes arrogant one. They prefer to stay in their part of the lands and not travel too far outside of it. Their relatively peaceful and well-ordered cities are all they need. Only rarely will you see a Dree travel through the world of Ave, but if you do, you should be on your guard. 
This race can create ice. Once trained, it is no problem for them to ‘forge’ weapons out of it. With those powers, they keep a big part of the world covered in ice. If a storm appears and restructures an unset area, they take it back, marking it as their own essentially. 
Their king is ‘Ilsen’, also known as the ‘godslayer’, since he has beaten two other kings that turned against him within one three-minute fight. His name alone keeps other races away from his territory. 

Frost
As a battle action, a Dree can freeze their opponent, with 1d6 points of damage being applied. Add 1d6 per level. 

Ice mending
With their special abilities, Dree can create ice (and snow) out of thin air, no matter when and where. They can create weapons, as long as they don’t require substances like gunpowder to work. Bows, swords, morning stars and those things work just like the real thing, though. Objects like keys are no problem either. 

Freeze
Starting at third level, you can touch an enemy or shoot them with an ice creation of yours and halve the amount of actions and their speed that they can perform for one round, if you hit. 

Spontaneous Armor
Starting at fifth level, if you’d be hit with an attack, you can choose to negate the damage as a reaction by cloaking yourself under ice. 

Summoning
On your seventh level, you get the ‘Summoning’ ability. With that, you can create living beings with your ice, e.g. a rabbit or a wolf, following your orders. You can also create organic structures, e.g. wings that you yourself can fly with. Every ten minutes, you have to make an ‘Ability’ check to make sure you can keep your creation’s form active. Every fifth new level, you can add an additional pawn or creation. 

Mass Creation
Starting at tenth level, you can use your ice mending powers to great great structures out of ice, up to the size of a 3-story-building. If people or other structures are in the way, they will usually get shoved aside without taking any damage. Double the size every five levels. 
-----------------------




-----------------------
::::: NESS :::::
Water beings, usually more calm. Don’t participate in fights too often unless they’re threatened. 
Made up of water, which is useful in- and outside of combat, mostly for dodging hits. They tend to settle down in smaller safe zones rather quickly in their life and keep a low profile. 
Their alliance isn’t the most ambitious one, but their queen, Elleen, manages to watch over her people quite well in dodging greater wars between other alliances. 

Aquatic Body
Your body is made out of water, thus you have advantage on Dexterity and Defence checks if you are being attacked by weapons. You can also turn to liquid for up to ten seconds as an action. Additionally you don't receive fall damage, but are turned into a puddle of water until you reform your body as an action. 

Aquatic Healing
You can heal 1d6 per round as an action and level when you are touching water. Since you absorb it, one water bottle equals one dice. 

Splash
Sarting at third level, you can hit enemies with a body of water that you can create out of nowhere for the duration of the attack. This catapults them back by 2m and deals 1d6 points of damage. Add 1d6 and 2m every second level you gain after your third level. 
You also gain the ability to manipulate small liquid bodies. 

Can’t hit me
Starting at fifth level, your enemies have disadvantage on any physical attack against you. If they decide to attack you with an ability, this does not apply. You remain the advantage on dodging and tanking from your lvl 1 ability. 

Blood Bending
Starting at seventh level, you can try and take control over an enemy. Whether this works or not is decided over an ability contest each round, with you having advantage on it. You can not use their abilities, only their weaponry. Keeping control doesn’t take up any of your actions. 
You also gain the ability to manipulate greater liquid bodies. 

Tsunami
Starting at tenth level, you can create water out of nowhere for the duration of this attack. You can cause a gigantic wave to rush over an area, with people hit by it receive 1d20 points of damage. It is 3m wide in radius and grows twice the size every fifth level. 
You also gain the ability to manipulate huge liquid bodies. 
-----------------------




-----------------------
::::: KAMI :::::
These folks tend to be lighthearded, over the top crazy beings that are just as jumpy as their main ability. 
Their abilities stem from two sources; light and teleportation. They can cast light as a distraction, illuminate their surroundings or turn The darkest night into bright daylight, if strong enough, and have the extraordinary ability to teleport to wherever their please. 
Their alliance is deemed as not too dangerous in itself, but most races tend to keep Lightborns their friend, as they are extremely useful for scout operations and messaging. Their king, ‘Loomis’, has managed to build a network of messengers that are stationary in most major cities, to allow for message transportation over continents quickly. 

Teleportation
Lightborns can teleport right from their birth. Starting at level one, you’ll be able to teleport for 40ft. If you do so, you can only teleport 4m next time, then 2, then 1, until you can’t teleport at all anymore. Every turn you don’t use this ability takes you a step back up again, until you’re fully charged again. 

Light
Lightborns are able to touch objects and make them glow, until they choose to make it stop or are out of distance. You can also create illusions of light with your hands. 

Screen
Starting at third level, you can create a bright source of light, blinding others if they fail to make an ‘Observance’ check against your Ability check for a few moments (1 round in battle). This is an action. Once an enemy has managed to break through your blinding, it has advantage on the roll. 

Lightning fast
Starting at fifth level, you have advantage on dodges and defence rolls because you’re able to deceive the enemy through your light manipulation, or teleport yourself out of harm’s way minimally without spending a teleport charge. 

And it was light
Starting at seventh level, you grant the ability to manipulate the light of your surroundings. You can either remove or add light to any area around you, or simulate daylight for your current environment. This is commonly used by Lightborns to scare off wild beasts or weaken them. 

Duplication
Starting at 10th level, you can duplicate yourself. The both of you are connected, still one and the same person, but you can take double the amount of actions that you are usually able to do while in this form. However, your hit points are split between the two of you. Once one duplicate hits zero hit points, it disappears. You can do this once per rest. You can create an additional duplicate every five levels and gain one usage per rest. 
-----------------------




-----------------------
::::: ARNO :::::
Arno are usually calm beings that travel Ave at a slow pace and prefer to stay out of harm’s way. They do tend to follow their king’s orders without question however, and as such are recently seen more and more often to be overtaking set areas. 
Their abilities are plant-based, creating vines and vegetations that either trap, hurt or devour their enemies – or just make the space they’re in a bit more lively. 
Their king, ‚Daeron’, has only recently taken over control and has had a much more aggressive way of handling things than most of his predecessors. 

Vine Strike
Starting at first level, you can create plants out of nowhere around you. You can use this ability to strike enemies with your creations and their force, dealing 1d6 damage to a single target that is up to 10ft away. Add 1d6 and 10ft every level you gain. 

Detection Work
You can use vines you bury into the ground to search your environment for whatever you’re in need of. The range of this is 20m, with 20m being added every level. 

Crowd Control
Starting at third level, you can create a burst of plants around a point that you describe, burrowing people you choose within a 2m radius. Their movements are restricted and they have disadvantage on all dexterity and defence rolls. They can break free through contesting with ability or strength at the start of their turn. Lightborns are an exception, as they can teleport out of this easily. Add 1m radius with every level you gain. 

Poison Ivy
Starting at fifth level, the plants you create can paralyze or poison enemies when coming in contact with them. Poisoned enemies will receive 2d6 points of damage per turn, and can end their condition through a focus check against your ability skill.  Add 1d6 every second level. 

Biome Creation
Starting at seventh level, you can spontaneously create great amounts of life around you, to the point where you can create entire forests or similar biomes out of nowhere up to a 40m radius. Add 20m every level you gain. Your Poison Ivy can not be linked to this ability yet, at least not beyond your ‘Crowd Control’ given radius. 

Power of Life
Starting at tenth level, your biomes can paralyze or poison enemies. The damage through biome poisoning is twice as much as your Poison Ivy ability would usually suggest. You can select who is affected. Additionally, you can sense how many people are where in your biome. 
-----------------------




-----------------------
::::: SHIN :::::
This race is usually frowned upon by all others, reason being them usually deceiving everyone around them. Shin are focused on the task at and don’t care too much for collateral damage when it comes to obtaining what they want. 
They can create illusions through glowing smoke. They can disguise themselves, go invisible, or create greater illusions around them that – at some point in their development – gain substance and thus are able to actually deal damage. 
Their current queen, Vee, is not hiding her intentions of slowly taking over Ave. Because of that, she has made herself many enemies – some within her alliance. 

Minor Illusion
You can create minor illusions around yourselves. This includes things such as changing your clothing, making animals appear, faking injuries on yourself or others, or faking weapons. If a person touches the illusion, they glide through it, revealing a glowing aura and smoke. 

Disguise
You can change your own appearance on a whim. You can do this as a free action. If someone touches you in your new disguise, it feels real. People can realize your disguise by contesting their Focus against your Ability check. You can turn yourself invisible, but if you move, your disguise blows. 

Invisibility
Starting at third level, you can turn yourself invisible as an action and stay hidden while moving or attacking. If you take a hit, you must make an ability check against the enemy’s attack roll. If you fail the contest, you become visible again and can’t turn invisible again for your next round. Ranged attacks have disadvantage if you're invisible. For additional rules relating to combat, see the Combat Encounters page's section on invisibility rules. 

Greater Illusion
Starting at fifth level, you can cast great illusions out of nowhere as an action. These can be up to the size of a three-story-building. If you take a hit, you must contest your ability vs. the attacker’s attack roll to uphold concentration. These illusions feel real until they try to damage someone or someone else tries to damage them. In that case, it becomes apparent for everyone they’re fake. 

Enchantment
Starting at seventh level, you can enchant enemies by touch. If they realize you’re doing this, they can contest their Focus vs. your Ability check. If they don’t, or if they fail the check, you can essentially cast Suggestion. 

Conjuration
Starting at tenth level, your projections become real. They can take and deal damage. Depending on the size and monstrosity of your illusion, they can deal up to 5d20 damage on a single target, where everything below a 5 is re-rolled. If someone tries to Focus check your illusion, you have advantage on the Ability contest. If you take a hit, you must contest your ability vs. the attacker’s attack roll to uphold concentration. 
-----------------------




-----------------------
::::: ZEN :::::
This race is one of the few ones that aren't immediately distrusted for safety reasons, mostly because of their lightheartedness and social structure. Their alliance allows for all races to be present in their city with few regulations, which already sets them apart from most other races. 
They can create and manipulate sonic waves with their thoughts alone, making themselves and others inaudible to everyone around them, or creating distractions. At some point, some of them even manage to deafen their enemies and cause physical damage and knockback through their sheer force. 
Their current queen, Elar, is known for being on good terms with every other reasonable royal out there. She has the reputation of a "party queen", which unfortunately is one of the reasons why more extreme Zen don't want her as their leader - her seeming lack of ambitions. 

Soundwave
You can create sounds with your sheer thoughts. Anything you can imagine can be acoustically produced around you. People can't tell the difference between fake and real reliably if they're not a Zen themselves, who have to contest their focus vs. your ability check to realize. 

On Mute
You can mute up to one being per level. This includes footsteps. If a muted person were to break a vase, however, that sound would be audible. You cannot mute another Zen, however. 

Hearing Aid
Starting at third level, you have enhanced hearing. If you choose to do so, you can hear conversations through walls or over a great distance perfectly fine. If you don't mention using your enhanced hearing, you hear like any other person around you. 

Telepathy
Starting at fifth level, you can talk to people around you in their head, seemingly telepathically. They need to be in visible range however. 

Shockwave
Starting at seventh level, you can create soundwaves with such a force that they bounce back enemies and deafen them until their next round. You can create these waves from any direction into any direction. Enemies hit by this shockwave can take anything up to 5d6 damage if you choose so. 

Blastwave
Starting at tenth level, your soundwaves become destructive. You can create sonic events that completley shatter environments in a 6m radius cube in front of you and cause 1d20 points of damage. Every fifth level you can add 1d20 and add 6m to their radius. 
-----------------------




-----------------------
::::: TARO :::::
The Taro are known to be the most hard to kill creatures alongside the Ness. 
Their bodies are made of metal and they can reforge them into weapons, or cloak themselves under a layer of natural armour. As they are so hard to kill, they're known to travel in groups of two through the world of Ave. Enough to keep themselves alive, not enough to cause serious issues. 
Their current king is called Pera, known to be focussed on defending what they have rather than risk it in risky wars. This way of living in Ave has been tradition for the Taro for long enough to be burned into most of their ethics. 

My Body is a Weapon
You can manipulate your body to spontaneously form giant weapons out of it. Your melee attacks with these weapons deal 1d6 damage on lvl 1 and scale as an additional 1,5 dice per level you gain. 
As an additional feature you can pick locks by changing the shape of your fingers, or break them open using your arms, making yourself an essentially stronger crowbar. 

Man of Steel
You don't receive fall damage as your body is sturdy enough to take even the strongest impacts without a scrap. 

Stand Your Ground
Starting at third level, you have advantage on all rolls that rely on your strength, sturdiness or endurance. 

My own last defence
Starting at fifth level, you have advantage on Defence rolls as your body is strong enough to withstand most of what your enemies could possibly throw at you. 

My Body is a Shield
Starting at seventh level, if you’d be hit with an attack, you can choose to negate the damage as a reaction by shifting that part of your body into metal. 

Immovable Force
At tenth level, you master expertise in your body physique. You become an immovable force, able to burst through walls like nothing, or counter the momentum of a car racing towards you by simply standing in its way. Damage dealt by other beings against you is halved. 
-----------------------




-----------------------
::::: AHRI :::::
The race of the Ahri is one that most other alliances have mixed feelings about. They have accumulated a lot of influence through collaborating with different races and have made as many enemies as they have made friends in doing so. They live in small cities that are cut off mountain tips with structures placed on top of them. They live in these structures above the ground and far from conflict - the only problem being their lack of safe zones. So they help out different alliances at different times in various tasks for what's essentially a rental above their cities when geo storms are incoming. 
This race can defy gravity for themselves and others, make objects or entire cities float depending on their strength level and chain their enemies to the ground. They tend to live exclusively on their floating biomes and evade battles if possible, as they're not the naturally most offensive group of people. 
Their current queen 'Fae' is part of a very powerful bloodline among the Ahri, with an important difference between other alliances; she's been elected by her people. Fae's entire bloodline is known to be irregularly strong, and to keep peace within themselves and prioritize stability, they let the people decide who should wear their crown. With that mindset, they're already more diplomatic than most other races. 

Levitate
You can defy the laws of gravity. Objects you touch that are lighter than you can float if you touch them. They stop floating once you leave the general area, or once another Ahri restores it's gravitational function. 

Feather Fall
You can choose one person whose gravitational pull is lessened, which provides a safe landing from heights and eliminates fall damage. Add one person more per additional level you gain. 

Earth Bind
Starting at third level, you can choose three people as an action whose movement is going to be halved until they win a contest against your Focus check with either Strength or Movement. You can add one additional person per level you gain. 

Time Out
Starting at fifth level, as an action you can choose one person within 20m of you and chain that person to the ground by amplifying their gravitational pull. Each round they can roll a Strength or Movement check to break out of this state against your Focus check. You have to spend an additional action for each round you want to keep this state active, as you need all your focus to make sure your target doesn't break out of the pull. 

Now, Kiss
On your seventh level, you can chain a person to a target that can either be another person, or an object at least as large as your first target. They are now pulled towards that person as if it was the ground for them. This takes an action each round you want to keep the effect active. Your first target can break out of this by contesting their Strength or Movement checks against your Focus check. 

Moving Castle
Starting at tenth level, your levitation powers go mad. You can now lift objects as large as a one-story-building and remove ist gravitational force. If the object is anchored to the ground, or part of the ground even, you can crack it up with no effort and lift it into the sky. Each level, the size of what you can levitate doubles. 
-----------------------
